docs(self-hosted): rework for troubleshooting redis page (#17702)
getsentry/sentry-docs: develop-docs/self-hosted/troubleshooting/redis.mdx

Reviewer: `AI model pricing data` is not shared with Relay via Redis.

sidebar_order: 5
---

Redis is not used only as a cache data store in the self-hosted setup. It is used for several purposes:

1. A communication channel between `sentry` and `relay` for storing project configurations and AI model pricing data, so `relay` can validate an incoming DSN public key and its corresponding project ID. The `taskworker` container is responsible for seeding project configurations to Redis.
2. Locks for various Kafka consumer workers (snuba containers and sentry consumers) to prevent multiple workers from processing the same event at the same time.

> 3. An authentication session store for the web UI and various transactional data stores.

Reviewer 2: We don't store authentication sessions in Redis though. Our sessions are cookie only. We do store data in the session during SSO provider setup flows though. If you're looking to enumerate the other ways we use Redis, you might want to include:

1. Rate limiter for requests to Sentry, and Snuba.
2. As a buffer for events during error & transaction processing.
3. As a buffer for span ingestion.

## Out of Memory Error

There are multiple causes for Redis running out of memory, one of which is an event-processing backlog or ingestion spikes. The first thing you can do is check which product is causing a large number of items in Redis with the following command:

```bash
docker compose exec redis redis-cli --scan | cut -d: -f1 | sort | uniq -c | sort -n
```

> If the results show that the majority of keys are from `e`, it means the event-processing backlog is causing the issue. In this case, you can try increasing the memory limit for Redis, or reducing the number of ingested events by applying server-side rate limiting or decreasing the client-side sample rate. These keys are supposedly transient and have a TTL, so they should be automatically removed after a while.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the results show that the majority of keys are from `e`, it means the event-processing backlog is causing the issue. In this case, you can try increasing the memory limit for Redis, or reducing the number of ingested events by applying server-side rate limiting or decreasing the client-side sample rate. These keys are supposedly transient and have a TTL, so they should be automatically removed after the events have been processed.
```
